h1. Headless mhu-hair

mhu-hair documentation "http://www.mhus.de":http://www.mhus.de 

{toc}

h2. Scope

It is also possible to use hair in a headless mode if you not try to use GUI only plugins. There are a set of text only plugins. Specially scripts can be executed in the text mode.

h2. Requirements

This document only describe the installation in a UNIX environment with bash. The environment have to contain the parameters DOCUMENTUM and DOCUMENTUM_SHARED pointing to the correct directories. See documentum administration guide for this.

h2. The mhu-hair package

To install hair in the console create a new directory, e.g. "hair" and download the zip install package. Unpack the package in the directory and create the softlink "bin" to the new directory.

bc.. mkdir hair
cd hair
unzip xxx/mhu-hair2-2.x.x-bin.zip
mv hair2 mhu-hair2-2.x.x-bin
bc. ln -s mhu-hair2-2.x.x-bin bin

h2. Central configuration

Create a config.inc file and put important informations inside it. You can also define DOCUMENTUM and DOCUMENTUM_SHARED inside.

bc.. # path to documentum, this is maybe already set
export DOCUMENTUM=xxx
export DOCUMENTUM_SHARED=$DOCUMENTUM/shared
# path to the java executable
export JAVA_BIN=$JAVA_HOME/bin/java
# optimize java parameters
export JAVA_OPTS=-Xmx128M -verbose:gc 
# for D5.x only
export JAVA_OPTS=$JAVA_OPTS -Dlibrary.path=$DOCUMENTUM_SHARED/dfc
# path to the hair home directory
export HAIR_HOME=xxx/hair
export HAIR_JAR=$HAIR_HOME/bin/Hair.jar
export HAIR_LIBS=$HAIR_HOME/bin/libs
export HAIR_DFC=$HAIR_HOME/bin/dfc

export HAIR=$JAVA_BIN $JAVA_OPTS -jar $HAIR_JAR -st cons -hair_home $HAIR_HOME/bin -hair_dfc $HAIR_DFC -dctm_lib_dir $DOCUMENTUM_SHARED/dfc

# maybe add access informations
bc. export DOCBASE=docbase.host.com,username,encrypted_password

h2. Start mhu-hair

Include the configuration and start hair via the created parameter:

bc. . config.inc
$HAIR <path to the plugins directory>

h2. Headless plugin configuration

In the plugins directory the work definition is set. Have a look into "plugins configuration":plugin_config.html . In the headless mode you need a headless login onto the docbase. At the end of execution you need a plugin that will stop hair it will not do by itself.

The "login" configuration section can look like this:

bc.. connect.xml:

<root sort="001" >
    <start class="de.mhu.hair.plugin.dctm.ApiDocbases"/>
    <start class="de.mhu.hair.plugin.cons.ConnectPlugin">
       <config>
          <docbase   docbase="$docbase:0$" user="$docbase:1$" pass="$docbase:2$"/>
          </config>
       </start>
bc. </root>

Execute hair like this:

bc. $HAIR <path to plugins> -docbase $DOCBASE

The additional parameter from "config.inc" will be used to authenticate and connect to the docbase. Now the "exit" configuration:

bc.. exit.xml:

<root sort="zzz" >
   <start class="de.mhu.hair.plugin.cons.ExitPlugin" />
bc. </root>

Have a look to the sort values. The connect plugin should be started as the first plugin. The exit is the last executed. If you define additional files with your functionality use sort values between "001" and "zzz", e.g. "2", "3", "10" ... . If you need a task befor the connect use the sort "0".
